---
layout: post
title: "Et boom, c'est le choc!"
date: 2015-05-09 13:37:00
categories: africa
tags: mali
---
We leave Teriya Bugu well rested and decide it's time to go a bit further south again, to Burkina Faso.
Our target is to get to Bobo Dioulasso in two days, where we will wait for the arrival of Nina, Lorenz' girlfriend.
We pass Bla, a small town and continue on the road towards Sikasso.
In one of the villages we pass, I can see a scooter getting ready to cross the big road and go from one piste to another piste.
He is starring at us, so he's obviously seen us and/or heard us.
I'm not worried.
We're on a big road, there are no speedbumps, so we're driving around 100 km/h.
I pass the guy who wants to cross.
The next time I check my mirror, Lorenz is gone.
All I can see in the mirror is a pile that vaguely ressembles his motorcycle.
The voice in my head goes "Shit! Shit! Shit!".
I turn around, get off my bike and see Lorenz lying in the middle of the road.
I walk over. "Bist du da?" ("Are you there?") is my first question.
He doesn't respond. I repeat it again. "Bist du da?". He responds, phew.
He asks how the others are.
I discover now, that the guy had his wife and a small kid on his scooter.
The wife is lying next to Lorenz, the guy around 5m down the road and the kid somewhere inbetween.
I try to assess their condition: the wife is unconscious, the kid and the driver are awake.
So I go and take a look at the wife first.
She's clearly breathing. I open her mouth, nothing inside.
One of the village people is attending to her by repeatedly spitting on her head.
I guess that's what first aid looks like here.
The kid has a few cuts here and there, but seems okay.
The guy has a bit more cuts and his leg his bloody.
Lorenz wants to take off his helmet, so I help him do that.
One of the people tells me that they called the police and ambulance.
So now we wait.
I get out the first aid kit to see if there's something helpful inside.
But besides a bit of wound spray, we don't have anything of use.
The woman has woken up.
My estimate is that she was unconscious for only a few minutes.
Lorenz says his collarbone feels broken, so I tie a sling around his arm with my spare shirt.
Tying the sling is easy, but making it fit properly so it's actually useful is difficult.
After a while the police arrives.
They don't even bother with looking after the people; they just do measurements and drawings.
I walk around rather nervously, wanting to do something and help the people, but unable to do anything.
The guy's leg is so smashed that our first aid kit doesn't have enough material to bandage it, so there's no point in starting.
The kid was taken up by somebody and has stopped crying.
The mother seems okay, too.
Lorenz asks for some painkillers, which I give him.
When the ambulance finally arrives, they just load everyone in the same car and go back to Bla, the nearest town.
I get Lorenz tank bag and fasten it to my motorcycle.
The bike and the scooter are loaded on the pick-up truck of the police by hand.
The police tells me to follow them to their station.
Once there, they unload the bikes and do their report.
The guy on the computer is an incredibly slow typist, so it takes a while.
They tell me that an expert needs to come from Segou to look at the motorcycle, afterwards I can take it from their premises.
A strange procedure, I think.
I try to explain to them that there's no point in doing that because we're not going to get any money from the guy who caused the accident anyways.
He doesn't have insurance. Hell, he doesn't even have a driver's license.
They say it has to be done. Bureaucracy at its best.
We go to the hospital together.
The place is worse than I expected.
Apparently there's no doctor in this town, only nurses.
The rooms are filled 6 beds each and that's it.
Not even a fan. In 40 degree heat. Excellent conditions.
There's no X-ray machine here either, so they plaster up the guy's leg and put him in an ambulance to Segou.
They only have one ambulance, so Lorenz has to wait for them to come back.
One of the nurses gives me piece of paper with names of some medication which I'm supposed to buy.
I look the names up online: they're painkillers and some pills against swelling.
While I'm out, I also buy some food and cold drinks.
On my return, I'm greeted by the pool of blood left by the guy with the smashed leg.
Nobody sees the need to clean it up.
The flies will take care of it, I guess.
After eating, police questioning and a one hour drive, we arrive in Segou.
They originally wanted to charge us 30000 CFA (~45 EUR) for the transport, but never do.
Lorenz gets his X-ray done, but not before I go to the cashier office, where you pay the amount in cash, ahead of time.
At least they issue proper receipts, so Lorenz can claim it from his insurance later.
They give us a VIP room, which differs from the normal rooms in the following ways: there's only two beds and the beds are proper hospital beds, which are adjustable electronically.
There's no bathroom, not even a sink.
Food or water is not provided either, so I guess if you're sick and have noone to care for you, you just starve to death.
When the doctor finally arrives, he sends me to buy some more stuff: painkillers, pills against swelling, bandaging equipment.
I have to visit three different pharmacies to get everything I need.
The whole thing feels like a quest in a roleplaying game.
After a few more hours of waiting, Lorenz now has sling around his neck.
He says it's not really good, but it'll have to do for now.

We call the German automobile club, ADAC, which is our insurance company and will help get Lorenz back to Germany.
They tell us he needs a fit-to-fly certificate from a doctor.
We ask the doctor and he says that for a "small fee", he will do it tomorrow morning.
He looks a bit puzzled when we say that we need a receipt for his "small fee", but agrees to get it done.
I get up early the next morning to find breakfast and drive to Bla.
Once there, I get all the stuff out of Lorenz' motorcycle and pack it into mine.
The police there invites me for coffee and some baguette with mayonnaise, a common breakfast here.
Back in Segou, I buy a cheap sports bag, so Lorenz can take a lot of our equipment back with him.
Once everything is packed, I go out to organize transport back to Bamako.
One of the taxi drivers is willing to take Lorenz and give us a receipt, great.
So I get on my motorcycle and drive behind them to Bamako.
It's dark when we reach the outskirts of Bamako, marked by the giant line of trucks waiting to get into the city.
They're not allowed in the city during the day.
Through rush hour traffic, we make our way to the airport.
By the time we reach the entrance it's about 8 o'clock.
I've been up since 6, drove 400km through the heat, haven't eaten in a while and I'm dead tired.
The usual guide who wants to earn money by filling in departure forms is not prepared for my hostility towards him.
After I make it clear that I'm not in the mood to play his silly game, he walks off to bother other people.

I say goodbye to Lorenz and walk over the restaurant I saw while parking.
About 10 teenagers are playing on a PS2 nearby.
Over some rice with omelette and a coke, I finally have some time to reflect.
36 hours ago we were driving towards Burkina Faso, now Lorenz is on a plane to Germany.
It feels strange being alone for the first time in months.
I'll stay here for a while longer and sell the motorcycles.
I have no experience selling vehicles, I'm in a country where I know noone, my French is basic and Lorenz motorcycle is broken.
Not the best setup, but I'll figure it out somehow.
I also don't have any accomodation booked, so I eat quickly and drive to the Sleeping Camel.
Luckily they have a tent available.
It's still 30 degrees outside, even hotter in the tent, but I'm too worn out to care.
I spend the next few days trying to sell my motorcycle.
In Europe you would just post it online and wait.
It's not that easy here.
I drive around through different parts of the city, asking around at gas stations and other places where there's a lot of vehicles.
A few times they do test drives, but I can tell they don't want to pay the price.
I lower my price step by step and can finally find someone on the third day.
Noone seems to be interested in buying Lorenz' broken motorcycle, so I pick up spare parts and make my way to Segou.
In Segou, I fight my battle against bureaucracy and finally get one of the "experts" to come to Bla with me by bus and do the necessary paperwork.
The necessary repairs are done quicker than I thought.
I manage to exchange the broken radiator on the same day.
She starts up without any problems and the engine sounds good.
I eat dinner together with the policemen and sleep on the police grounds.
The next morning I ask one of the local mechanics to put a new tube and tyre on the rim that I brought from Bamako.
He asks for 500 CFA (~ 0.75 EUR). I mount the rim and take the bike for a test ride.
The fork is a bit bent, but besides that everything is fine.
The ride to Bamako is smooth and uneventful.
After a night in the tent, I drive on to Manantali, where a Dutch guy lives who agreed to buy the bike.
Three days later, I'm on a plane to Germany.

The culture shock is huge.
Europe is paradise.
The sad part is that the people there have lived in paradise for so long, they stopped recognizing it as such.
Many people in Europe live lives in insane luxury compared to where I was sixteen hours ago.
Yet, they are unhappy and unfulfilled.
I'm thankful for how enormously privileged we are.
Simple things delight me:
The availability of clean drinking water at any temperature one desires.
The overwhelming choice of goods you can buy everywhere, at any time.
The amazingly high chance that the person you're talking to can not only read and write, but has also gone to school for at least 9 years.

Even if you just live off welfare in an industrialised nation, you're already better off than a frightingly large percentage of humans living on this planet.
This is something we should remind ourselves of on a daily basis.
