---
layout: post
title: "Mali"
date: 2015-05-02 13:37:00
categories: africa
tags: mali
---
We stay at [Cool Camp](http://www.coolcampmali.com/) near Manantali for 3 days.
The river is nice and the nearby town provides us with everything we need.
On the second day we take the boat for a spin.
It's a strange mode of transportation and the rowing takes some getting used to.
Many people greet us while going down the river.
They must find it funny that two toubabo ("white men") are going down the river and up again without any purpose.
Many of these villages seem to be only reachable by boat.
At least they rely heavily on boats for transporting people and goods to nearby Manantali.

[1]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/1.jpg "View from the camp"
[{% picture 15/1.jpg %}][1]
[2]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/2.jpg "Market in Manantali"
[{% picture 15/2.jpg %}][2]
[3]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/3.jpg "Underwater landscape"
[{% picture 15/3.jpg %}][3]
[4]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/4.jpg "Sunset"
[{% picture 15/4.jpg %}][4]
[5]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/5.jpg "Going down the river"
[{% picture 15/5.jpg %}][5]
[6]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/6.jpg "Going down the river"
[{% picture 15/6.jpg %}][6]
[7]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/7.jpg "People preparing their boat"
[{% picture 15/7.jpg %}][7]

We continue to Bamako and spend the first night in the city center.
The hotel is noisy, shabby and it's difficult to find food.
We definitely don't want to stay here.
So we pick up our passports which we dropped off at the embassy of Burkina Faso the day before.
With our visa for Burkina ready, our next stop is the Malian office where we can get the real visa for Mali "printed" into our passports.
It's just down the road from the embassy of Burkina.
At the border to Mali, we only got a temporary visa, which we now have to convert into a real one.
Tomorrow is a holiday and after we tell the lady we can't wait until Monday, she tells us she will have it ready at 3 o'clock.
Great.

Online, we find a nice place to stay which is still affordable for us: Campement Kangaba.
They have 3 pools and a really nice environment.
A good place for spending a day relaxing, especially in 40 degree weather.
We spend a full day there before we head further, past Segou to Teriya Bugu.
Teriya Bugu was started by a French priest in the 80s.
It's located along the Bani river and he used the water to build up a farm.
He introduced solar power and biogas, too.
The project also includes education, health care, microcredits and the hotel we're staying in.
So to speak a full service development aid.
Unfortunately the priest died 12 years ago.
When the white man leaves, the things he built up usually start their slow degredation process until everything is in ruins and life continues the same way it has before the white man's arrival.
Maintenance is something that is just not practiced here.
Teriya bugu is no different: power is now exclusively generated with diesel, the solar power plant has stopped working completely.
The brochure claims that there is a "honey house" on the premises.
We go there in the hope of buying some honey for breakfast, only to find it closed.
No bees are to be seen anywhere.
The boulangerie consists of three guys lying around and selling standard baguette as you can buy anywhere in the country.
The only thing that seems to continue is the farming: the papaya and banana trees have survived so far.
Don't get me wrong - this is still a nice place to relax for a few days.
It's just not what I think it used to be.
The basic things are still functioning, but the more ambitious parts of the project just stopped.
The hotel still provides a nice environment, though.

[8]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/8.jpg "Teriya Bugu Hotel"
[{% picture 15/8.jpg %}][8]
[9]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/9.jpg "Turtles in Teriya Bugu"
[{% picture 15/9.jpg %}][9]
[10]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/10.jpg "Peacocks in Teriya Bugu"
[{% picture 15/10.jpg %}][10]
[11]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/11.jpg "Papaya trees in Teriya Bugu"
[{% picture 15/11.jpg %}][11]
[12]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/12.jpg "Fishermen on the Bani river"
[{% picture 15/12.jpg %}][12]
[13]: https://saschaeglau.com/upload/travel/15/13.jpg "Fishermen on the Bani river"
[{% picture 15/13.jpg %}][13]


Much can be learned from projects like these.
In order to be successful in the long term, foreign aid projects need to fulfill a few basic criteria:
- Any type of technology used needs to be easy to repair, without special spare-parts.
- The technology needs to be as close to indestructible as possible.
- It can not be assumed that any type of maintenance will be done.
- The project needs to be aligned with the interests of the people: nobody eats honey here, so they didn't see the need to continue producing it.
  Another example are latrines built by various non-profits: they're often not used by the people, because they're located too far outside the village.
  Nobody wants to walk 300m through the scorching heat just to pee. So they're used as storage facilities.
- The project needs to be carried out together with the people from the beginning.
  This prevents misalignment with their interests (see previous point) and enables them to learn new skills.
  It also prevents corruption.
  If you pay a local company to do the work for you, a part of the money (if not all) will surely find its way into somebody's pocket.
  The project will not be finished, because they "ran out of money".
The west spends millions every year in Africa, but when you travel here, you can't help but feel that most of it is wasted.
I'm not an expert on this subject, this is just my personal experience while travelling.
The most useful development aid I've seen so far is a hand operated waterpump.
The technology is simple and, if correctly built, almost indestructable.
The village will gladly use it, because it saves them the often long walk to their water source.
These pumps provide many villages with clean drinking water, which is definitely a good investment.
